+++
template = "page.html"
+++

## Work packages

### WP1: Language of Threats (Gjørv, Janda, Fidler)

WP1 combines social science and linguistic scholarship. A detailed literature
review in hybrid warfare will be carried out, examining the trajectory of
threat posturing emanating from different national sources, assessing how the
term “hybrid warfare” became popularized and in which literature, how hybrid
warfare has been represented across different national contexts (including
Russian and Norwegian), and providing an initial assessment of dominant
terminology in the literature (Norwegian, Russian, and English). WP1 accesses
the largest comparable reference corpora with linguistic tagging that supports
Keyword/Keymorph analysis. The [Aranea Family of Gigaword Web
Corpora](http://unesco.uniba.sk/aranea_about/) contains a Russian corpus, and
Aranea leader Benko has constructed a Norwegian web corpus for the project with
both bokmål and nynorsk varieties. UiT houses the [KORP corpus of North
Saami](http://gtweb.uit.no/korp), with full automatic tagging. WP1 develops
“seed” vocabularies of words and collocations that are symptomatic of news
articles/broadcasts that highlight threats. Seed vocabularies for each language
will be enhanced by computational means such as the use of semantic vectors and
word embeddings, as well as search engines that extract collocations, cf.
Araneum functions and [Collocations Colligations Corpora for
Russian](http://cococo.cosyco.ru). Threat vocabularies are enhanced by a
feedback loop from text analysis in WP2.


### WP2: Threat Text Analysis (Nesset & Cvrček)

Seed vocabularies for Russian, Norwegian, and North Saami developed in WP1
supply search terms for the extraction of target texts and ensure that
THREAT-DEFUSER will collect substantial samples of news from online newspapers,
TV broadcasts, and podcasts that comprehensively reflect the landscape of
threat-related discourse in each language. Russian TV broadcasts are currently
captured by the [UCLA NewsScape Library](http://tvnews.library.ucla.edu/) and
publicly available for research. NewsScape capture includes closed caption
texts that can be harvested for input into R and other analytical software.
This capture now includes Russian pro-government channels (*Pervyj*, *NTV*,
*TVC*). A capture station for Norwegian TV news will be set up and maintained
at UiT and archived in NewsScape; we will attempt to set up capture also for
the Russian opposition TV channel *Dožd’*. Newspaper, radio and other Internet
portals will include an extensive range of options, such as mainstream
(*Aftenposten*, *NRK*) and right-wing (*Resett*, *Document*) in Norwegian and
North Saami (*Ávvir*, *NRK-Sápmi*); and opposition (*Novaja gazeta*,
*Vedomosti*, *Èxo Moskvy*) and foreign (*Radio Liberty*, *BBC Russian*) in
Russian.

THREAT-DEFUSER will develop Keyword/Keymorph analysis for Russian, Norwegian
and North Saami by significantly enhancing the existing KWords application
hosted at the [Czech National Corpus portal](www.korpus.cz), improving
robustness of the application, and adding language-specific settings. These
improvements will consider copyright and other legislative restrictions in
order to maintain free and unrestricted access to the tool for all users. With
Keyword/Keymorph analysis for each language in place, we proceed to in-depth
investigation of target text deviations from reference corpora in terms of both
words and meaning-bearing grammatical categories. Here THREAT-DEFUSER reveals
differential linguistic behavior that may be indicative of ideological slants
and makes comparisons across media sources and languages.


### WP3: Media Connectivity (Pötzsch & Šlerka)

WP3 will critically interrogate the interface between civilian and media
agency, and devise concrete strategies for communication, verification, and
de-escalation with regard to perceived threats. These communication strategies
will be simultaneously shared and tested with the other WPs. The spectrum of
media sources in Norway and Russia and their audiences are probed for
connectivity, tracked in terms of social media likes of news posts and measured
in terms of Normalized Social Distance (Šlerka & Šisler 2017); Šlerka provides
knowledge transfer to apply also to Russian social media (*VKontakte*,
*Odnoklassniki*, *moj mir*). Media maps for each country are constructed and
groupings of media sources are classified. In addition, this WP addresses
processes and practices of escalation and radicalization in an extended
security paradigm by investigating the intersecting dynamics of new media
technologies (in particular social media and digital networks) and the
mediation of perceived threats through populism and extremism. WP3 investigates
the relationships between increasing global trends in populism and various
expressions of agency through extremism in response to perceived threats.
Relying on intersectional analysis (closely connected to feminist/gender
analysis) we can better contextualize and understand the technological,
economic, cultural, societal, and political patterns of support and restraint
predisposing civilians’ cognition and actions in encounters with perceptions of
invisible threats. Addressing the role of civilians in contemporary
media-fueled affective (emotional) politics in Western democracies, WP3 employs
theories of trust and civilian capabilities/agency (informed by intersectional
analysis) to understand the politicized roles of civilians in emerging crisis
scenarios, with a particular focus on the role of media technologies,
institutions, and practices in creating/maintaining/destabilizing environments
that foster populism, and further various forms of extremism.


### WP4: Synthesis (Gjørv & Trosterud)

Results from WP1-3 come together in comparisons across languages, countries,
and media, exposing trends and differences. Political implications are
identified, and strategies are developed to address gaps in knowledge.
Discourse analyses of central texts addressing hybrid threats (in Russian,
Norwegian/North Saami, and English) will be conducted and triangulated with
results from WP2 and 3 which will result in a multiple trajectory (quantitative
and qualitative) knowledge base of key threat-oriented language used in various
media. This knowledge base will serve as the foundation for WP5 and creation of
the NewsRadar plug-in. WP 4 will use qualitative methods (surveys, participant
observation, interviews) to gather data on how individuals in Norway, Sápmi,
and NW-Russia actually receive, negotiate, and potentially repurpose or subvert
allegedly radicalizing content disseminated in and through digital networks.
This shift of focus on media practices takes seriously the agency of individual
citizens and will help identify various machinic agencies interacting and
interfering with human users. The WP will produce qualitative data sets on
actual behavior with which assembled quantitative data sets on abstracted
aggregates can be correlated to control for validity and reduce biases caused
by selection of sources and other factors.


### WP5: Policy & Impact (Bast & Cullen)

Results from WP1-4 feed production of a webpage, podcast series, and policy
advisories that disseminate results to the public and to policy makers. A
component of WP5 will be to set up a sustainable model to assure that the
website remains operative also beyond the end of the project. Additionally, the
NewsRadar app/plug-in will be developed in Norwegian and Russian to break the
“filter bubbles” by rating news media and offering alternative views classed
according to results in WP4. This WP intertwines with the previous WPs,
specifically targeting core stakeholders and potential end-users regarding
current perceptions of invisible threats and how to manage these in a highly
information-driven, digital-oriented/dependent society like Norway. In addition
to connecting to stakeholders/end-users (business, NGOs/civil society
organizations, unions, political parties, etc.) and establishing preliminary
attitudes and perceptions amongst these actors, WP5 establishes an open
debate/seminar forum for these and other relevant participants. The WP
cooperates with UTSYN, an organization well connected to central, interested
authorities (particularly within the foreign and defence policy communities),
ensuring the visibility of THREAT-DEFUSER research and results to both policy
actors and civil society. Debate/seminar results will be shared regularly with
project partners, while WP5 will also ensure that academic publications will be
regularly disseminated to general audiences through media outlets including
editorials and commentaries. WP5 will manage all dissemination output, ensuring
visibility as research is published. It will also manage inputs and responses,
monitoring feedback by stakeholders and the general public to the ongoing
research.
